---
layout: post
title:  "The Dread Knight"
date:   2022-01-31 14:22:19 -0400
categories: 
---
# The Dread Knight

Raylen Blaiss hefted his massive two-handed sword. The span between the crosshilts was almost as wide as him, while the length of the sword reached from the ground to his neck. Clad in fully plated armor, the knight stood beside his fellows. Their arms and armor were all similar, but most of these knights added some touch to show their individuality, for each of them had earned great renown. These were the Veldama. More steadfast than any other soldier, Veldama knights could crush any opposing force. Only overwhelming numbers could push them back when they stood firm, and nothing but death could truly dislodge them. Sir Raylen had fought many battles under the noble warrior Morthen and won his place alongside these knights of greatest prowess many times over.

Now, the Veldama were tasked with holding a bridge too great to be destroyed and too vital to be lost. Enemy soldiers slowly advanced across the bridge, a bristling hedge of spears. On either side of Raylen and his fellow knights stood small groups of archers who furiously loosed volley upon volley of rasping arrows into the approaching mass of men. Morthen’s archers decimated the ranks of spearmen, new spears appearing as those before them fell. Men at arms and knights on foot, mostly wielding swords, filled in where no more spears stood and took their turn to face the flighted shafts. Raylen and the four-score Veldama raised their swords and roared in delight before rushing onto the bridge.

On the hill behind the Veldama, Morthen held back his pacing horse from galloping towards the conflict. He bellowed to the rest of the cavalry, “The knights will hold. We will throw our weight behind the Veldama if the enemy’s numbers push them back, but we can wait for now. We’ll need as many horses as we can keep.” The horsemen obeyed their commander and watched the enemy hundreds swarm the bridge.

In a moment, the spears of the enemy became useless in the claustrophobic quarters of the bridge, while the Veldama skilfully handled their great blades at any distance and landed heavy blow on heavy blow. Below, Raylen slammed his sword over the head and shoulders of a helpless knight, crushing him. Sir Raylen watched as spearmen cast down their weapons in favor of whatever smaller blades they had, but most were cut down before they by the time they grasped them. Before the faceless, bellowing Veldama, many on the front lines gave up hope and attempted to shove their way back through the mass of their fellows.

Raylen pressed forward, each step matched by those to his right and left. As he looked up to gauge their position, Sir Blaiss glimpsed the enemy’s horsemen riding down the bridge. Armored horses charged, their clattering hooves crashing thunder and bright blades flashing lightning. All of a sudden, the enemy began to push forward again, screams giving way to taunting yells. Veldama knights showed no fear or surprise but merely continued to push back against the new onslaught. The weight of the horses began to push them backwards and made space for a few spears. Raylen moved closer to his fellow knights and they began to speak together in rhythmic roars that counted out their blows and steps. Never holding still, the Veldama moved their feet up and down, back and forward, to the beat of their song. Wave after wave poured towards the steel men but Raylen and his fellows would not be broken.

Then came the lancers. Long spears in the hands of mounted knights thrust beyond the reach of the Veldama’s swords and Morthen’s men began to sink to the ground. Spearmen and swordsmen threw themselves on the steadfast knights, attempting to overwhelm them. Raylen kept his sword point upwards as he knocked aside lance after lance, staying wary of desperate leaps. A screaming man cast aside his spear and rushed at him with a drawn dirk. Sir Blaiss struck the soldier in the stomach with his sword’s heavy pommel, doubling over his opponent. With a short slash, the great blade dispatched the man and Raylen returned it to its ready position. 

He could feel his blood pumping in his ears keeping time with the thumping of the Veldama, the only sign that his fellow knights still stood. Raylen struck the face of a swordsman to his left and cut down a horse’s leg to his right. Wading forward through an abating sea of men, Sir Blaiss crushed opponent after opponent, bellowing notes and stomping his feet with the Veldama song. More and more men fled from around him, soon followed by a few straggling horses. Some still carried riders, some did not.

The enemy dissipated, but their archers continued letting fly from the opposite side of the bridge. Many soldiers were cut down by their own bowmen as they fled toward the plain with Raylen close behind. Fear began to grip them as their arrows flew straight across the bridge with no regard for the lives of Morthen’s knights or their own. Morthen held back his own cavalry from the deadly volleys and commanded his archers halt to protect the Veldama from a similar danger. The nearly thirty remaining Veldama, with Raylen foremost by a distance, rushed forward implacably. Notes were quickened and voices grew harsher as the song of the Veldama grew closer and closer to its end. Sir Raylen charged into a crowd of archers and wreaked havoc among them— not even the crowd of twenty or thirty could challenge the perilous warrior. When the rest of Blaiss’s fellows arrived, the new onslaught utterly broke the remaining forces and they scattered like a frightened flock of sparrows. Standing together, Raylen and the Veldama shook swords as they finished their song with ripping scorn.

Lifting his visor, Morthen turned to his victorious knights. Whirling their swords, the Veldama thrust them point downwards into the ground. One hand on the pommel, one hand on their heart, they saluted their king. He smiled at them as they abandoned their salute to embrace him.

“You never could resist a fight, my lord.”

“Of course not. Besides, I couldn’t sit still on a bloody hill.” After the celebrations, Morthen spoke directly to Raylen.

“I’m proud of the day I chose you to stand with the Veldama. Sir Raylen Blaiss, right?”

“Indeed, my lord. It is a privilege to fight among these great warriors. And the greatest honor is that of fighting alongside you, my lord Morthen.”

In the days following the battle, Sir Raylen Blaiss was appointed a special place beside Morthen. “A dread lord, and a dread knight to follow him,” people said. The Veldama knight smiled little and spoke less. Often, his face would not appear from under his visor. The crowds and courtiers merely saw an intimidating man in full plate armor bearing a colossal sword and a reputation of perilous deeds. Those blessed with height could glimpse his eyes through the slit between visor and helmet. Those who saw them testified that they were heavy and veiled, a danger that slept with both eyes open. Within the cold steel, Raylen watched the world with armor made of metal and reputation, and a sword of steel and silence. Renown set him on a pedestal of praise and served to isolate him. Morthen’s Dread Knight of the Veldama stood separate from the world and watched over it, despairing but determined.

When Morthen went to battle, so did Raylen. When the Veldama sang and fought, so did Raylen. He was a true soldier, fighting for his fellows, his land, and his lord. Deeds upon deeds of prowess and valor were added to his name and he attained great glory. Still, Sir Blaiss merely continued as he had for so long. The lone warrior kept watching his lord and the wider world, wondering how to help it. Maintaining his silence, he sang more than he spoke. The harsh songs of the Veldama never lacked his voice, and Raylen listened with glee to the epics of the bards he encountered during Morthen's travels.

Consolidating power and arranging support for the war season, Morthen arrived with the Dread Knight in a town known for its ancient library and abundant legends. Raylen was left to his own devices after his lord left for bed. Removing his armor, Sir Blaiss was able to pass as an ordinary knight, his true form a disguise to those surrounding him. One quiet question was enough to discover the location of the library, to which he hastened. Those who saw him on his way were confused, since this man’s mouth moved continuously without a listener or even a sound. In truth, the Dread Knight had become so used to the isolation of his armor that he habitually spoke inaudibly with himself. The watcher of the world was watched with wonder, but Raylen was so absorbed in his own mind that he did not notice. His thoughts delved deeper and deeper, driving him down the library’s coldly carved staircase. The further Raylen went, the more eerie the place became, forsaken now by even dusk. 

A small group, not ten persons, gathered in the depths of the library around a triangle of candles. Sitting in between the candles was a woman. Perhaps because of the glimmering fire, it seemed as if her light hair flickered with rippling flames. Her eyes sparkled in the shadows. Raylen stared at her dark eyes, a night sky with glittering stars. Many different shades appeared in the stars and in gleaming streaks of vibrant color. The light shone from her hair and from her eyes, a bright and pure light with great power. Then, the Dread Knight heard her Voice.

“There was once a creature that disappeared from the world along with the rest of its kind. It hid in a labyrinth deep underground and passed out of history and memory. One day, a princess who shone with white light walked into the depths and became trapped. The princess walked slowly, serenely, gliding like a ship driven by the wind. Around her, the air was still. No breeze ruffled the dark passage that was lit only by the girl. Her white dress glowed with pure light, her impossibly light hair shone with bright rays, her face emanated bright beams. The shadows of the labyrinth were still. The entire world seemed to hold its breath as it watched her soar above the dank ground. Out of the void, a sound pierced the princess’s aegis of light. Deep, haunting echoes resounded without a shiver. The world changed with this sound, the labyrinth transforming into something deep and mystical. Haunts of horror turned to halls of marvel. Inexorable, and with renewed purpose, she walked onward. On and on she searched, examining caverns and tunnels in the shadow. Still the music sounded, mysterious, intriguing. The princess finally came across a cavern greater than all the rest. The song, resounding and thunderous, engulfed her. She strode toward the darkness in questioning boldness. Then, from amidst the night, two small orbs of white light shone. She stood spellbound and whispered to the Beast: ‘Not all in the shadows is dark.’ The Beast sang, its echoing notes thundering throughout the Labyrinth. Simultaneously, in softer tones that she strained to hear, the princess heard psalms and stories in the songs. She stayed there and subsisted on the music. Occasionally she would join in with the song of the Beast. And so they sang for years and years, music of light and dark entwining in the Melody of the Deep.”

Raylen was entranced in a moment. For the first time in years, Raylen looked and listened and forgot himself. He was not the Dread Knight, not a man of the Veldama, not even Sir Blaiss. Through her eyes he could glimpse a world beyond his own, and through her words he walked in it. He felt a searing pain deeper than any he had suffered in battle. Raylen’s mind was bursting with images he could not put in words, his heart overflowing with awe he could not fit in his chest. Within him, his soul rose higher and higher, greater than the earthly warrior’s body. Once the group had dispersed, Raylen fought for strength to speak. Any who had seen his attempt to converse with the storyteller would have seen the woman smile and listen as the knight again spoke inaudibly. He had spent so many years immersed in stories and songs and silence, and in this woman, he met understanding rather than confusion or condescension.

“Tell me a story,” she said gently. 

Raylen’s mouth moved but his words, so unused to a listener, told his story without a sound. 

“I have walked among the stars. In the dark expanse, I stroll alone. The burning stars mark my journey as I visit each one. Some crackle a warm greeting, others a hostile one, all questioning. What is this man that dares walk among us? Why does he walk alone? Where is he going? Each star speaks to me. Some whisper their secrets. One told me of a hidden shadow that lurks within its burning. Several whisper of the future, telling me their visions that will come true. They tell me of their spinning, the pattern of their paths through the darkness. I hear of the interminable watching and the burning that will, in the end, consume them. To the stars, time moves slow. A second is nothing, a year is a blink, an age is a day. Their watching must draw them always and the wonders of the expanse must never lose their beauty as they walk their lonely way. But some tire of time. These stars act as they can. On the one hand, some burn brighter, the quicker to expire. On the other, some waste away, their glow dulled in boredom. I walk among clusters of stars that sing across the dark sea. They sing songs as long as ages, songs of grandeur and intricacy. Some join together in choirs and harmonize, while others sing alone. Some converse, each star's astral melody following their fellow's. As I walk among the stars, I hear stories. Words spin masterful visions in whispers and roars. Hymns and lullabies tell of mysteries and legends. But as I speak with all the stars and join in their watching, none can tell me of myself.” Raylen’s story poured out from his heart, his depths emptied in a cascade of soundless soliloquy. 

“Raylen Blaiss, you have walked far and seen much, but do not mistake your fellow men for the stars, no matter how great. You have become detached from yourself and from others. They cannot truly grasp you because you are isolated from them. Even if you were close, you could not fully fathom any other and they could not fully fathom you. But to be told anything of yourself, you must tell others. Do not become the Beast, living solely in your Melody of the Deep. Do not allow yourself to be trapped in the dark labyrinths of your mind. Escape, seek the light, and walk the earth. Embrace the depths, yearn for the stars, but do not sing alone.”

The woman’s face widened in a smile heavy with care. Her eyes seemed to change and Raylen thought he saw a rolling ocean of immense depth and wisdom in them. Her hand grasped his for a moment, then left it hanging limply by his side. Fire and light shot through him, the woman’s power leaving the Dread Knight frail and faltering. For a few moments, the candles’ flames slowed down and Raylen felt his mortality. Then came the strength. A change rippled from his hand to the rest of him. He knew that real change would take ages, but the most important one had already occurred. Looking into the fire, Raylen set his mind on hope.

As Sir Blaiss left the library, his mouth was open again. A smile appeared in place of moving words. His thoughts were fixed outside himself. His eyes were less heavy, but deeper and brighter. Songs swarmed his mind and euphoria engulfed his heart. Raylen bathed in relief now that the Dread Knight could lose all dread himself. The woman, the storyteller, the eyes had shown him how to live. The knight of the Veldama was only beginning his fight that reached much farther than the battlefield. Best of all, just as with Morthen’s knights on the bridge, Raylen Blaiss was not alone.

In the following days, Morthen grew to know what lay behind the Dread Knight’s mask. The hardened warrior lord learned that Sir Blaiss was well educated and deeply thoughtful. With the strength to speak, Raylen turned his lord’s attention to the lands he already held in their increasingly frequent conversations. Morthen learned that the Dread Knight believed in guardianship and fellowship. Fighting alongside the Veldama drew the knights closer together. With such a man beside him, Morthen found others all the more eager to follow their lord.

“You are one hell of a knight, Raylen.” The warlord said one night at dinner. Sir Blaiss was clad in minimal armor and had even brought a broadsword in place of his monstrous two-handed blade.

“Thank you, my lord. I seek to do my duty.”

“I know. Plenty of men do, but you’re the first to stay close enough for me to ask about it.”

“Whatever you ask, I will answer as best I can.” Raylen bowed his head in respect. Morthen broke in immediately as he finished speaking, brushing aside the knight’s formalities.

“You always want to do your duty, but what is it?”

“A good question. You said you’ve met many dutiful men. Ask any of those who truly pursue the fulfillment of duty and they will give you different answers. One man’s duty is to care for his family. Some command soldiers, others direct the course of towns and nations.”

“But none of that tells me about yours.”

“My duty is less clear than ever. At its core, I believe that I am to act as a guardian and a servant. I guard and serve you, my lord, and the lands you hold, and the people in them.”

“You may be a bloody good fighter, but you can’t do all that at once.”

“The impossibility of my duty has weighed heavily on me.”

“Can’t say I’m surprised. Is that why you stayed so quiet all the time? Thinking about your duty and how you could do it all? Why have you started talking now?” Without thinking, the warrior lord pursued the question.

“I couldn’t tell you exactly,” the tall knight said as he began to shrink into his chair. Morthen noticed the change, but it was too late. “Perhaps to understand, you can consider stories and epics and songs. Many of them focus on the great deeds of one man or a few. Regardless, their legacy is passed on and serves to unite many through their deeds and the songs we make from them. Leaders and champions are necessary. I believe that you are one of them, my lord. To protect you and the nation is impossible on my own, but I am a knight of the Veldama and a subject of yours. So, I am not alone.”

“A shared duty, then?”

“I suppose so.”

“But you, Raylen. You’re the Dread Knight and a leader of the Veldama. The duty may be shared, but you do much more of it than maybe anybody.”

“You honor me, my lord.”

“And you humble me. Honestly, if I die you should be king. You’re a fighter and have what it takes to be a ruler too.”

“As I have said, my duty is to you.” Raylen again dipped his head and Morthen could not doubt that his submission was sincere.

“Remember that day the Veldama fought on the bridge? I’m proud of that day. That’s the day you became my Dread Knight.”

People met Raylen Blaiss as more than the Dread Knight. In addition to being Morthen’s most perilous warrior, they found him a thoughtful man who had Morthen’s ear. Raylen began to reach out himself and his counsel was respected by all those he came across. His blade protected his lord while his words guarded the land more and more. As Sir Blaiss traveled the land with Morthen, he became known for his singing. No longer silent, songs often poured out from his mouth. He made a ballad of the Melody of the Deep he heard from the woman in the ancient library, and the story spread across the land. In Raylen’s song, the Beast was a prisoner in the labyrinth. The princess arrived and gave the Beast hope for escape from the shadowed maze. Singing together in blissful harmony, the princess led the Beast from his prison and they escaped to the world above before parting ways.

The burning of earthly and celestial torches often appeared in the songs he sang and stories he told. The moving lights fascinated him and again turned his thoughts to the woman or the worlds beyond his own. Almost nightly, Raylen spent hours staring at the stars or into flames. His companions in battles and journeys looked curiously at the Dread Knight’s frequent stargazing and kept a distance, partially from respect and partially from fear. When Sir Blaiss sat at a fire, though, more and more learned to gather and listen. His eyes were always fixed on the flames, but his voice held power and wonder that served only to increase his reputation. Already a legend by his blade, Raylen became a leader by his voice.

“Dread Knight Raylen,” Morthen greeted Sir Blaiss loudly and with a hearty clap on the shoulder.

“My lord,” the knight replied, smiling politely.

“Are you ready for another fight?”

“Always. Where is my blade needed this time?”

“This one’s a bit different to the others. I’ve got news that one of our southern cities is under threat. Your duty,” the warlord winked, “is to take fifteen Veldama with you and hold the city along with whatever garrison it has. This is a chance for you to guard something bigger than a bridge.”

“Once again you honor me, my lord. Thank you.”

“Make sure you hold the city, Raylen.”

“I am a knight of the Veldama. We always hold.” The two great warriors smiled widely, knowingly, and parted. Morthen needed no convincing that Sir Blaiss would do as commanded.

Fifteen Veldama stood atop the battlements awaiting the Dread Knight. Raylen walked below, clad in his customary armor and a cloak of command, examining the defenses he had prepared for the imminent battle. The two-score horses stood further down the wall in preparation to charge upon any enemies who swarmed through the gates. Behind the iron-coated wood stood lines of spearmen, swordsmen, axemen. The few bowmen in the city stood on the wall behind and to either side of the Veldama. They had never seen the legendary knights before and spent less time looking toward their enemies than at Morthen’s warriors in trepidation and admiration. In full armor, visor down, the Dread Knight ascended the stairs and waited for the battle to unfold.

After an hour of watching and waiting, a great noise sounded from the edge of the forest. In reply to the jeers and taunts of a thousand men, the Veldama began to sing. Raylen’s voice led the others in a battle song that inspired cheers from the city’s defenders. A number of the enemy emerged from the forest bearing a ram and several ladders. They marched as quickly as they could, but their loads slowed them. Behind these stood a vast array of soldiers ready to assault the city. The archers on the wall opened fire as soon as the enemy were in range. One by one, men began to fall. The song of the Veldama rose to a crescendo when the equipment reached the walls. Bowmen ran to the other side of the gate and began firing down on the ram-bearers while the Veldama prepared to repel those scaling ladders. Suddenly, the plain between the city and the forests was engulfed in a flood of onrushing soldiers. Then the surge slowed and the defenders’ cheers renewed. From atop the wall, the Dread Knight raised his sword heavenward and belted out a song of violence. His voice thundered, piercing armor and drowning out the rest of the Veldama.

Head after head began appearing above the wall and man after man fell from it. The heavy blades of the Veldama mercilessly crushed all within their reach. As the enemy swarmed up the ladders, a few men gained the battlements before being felled amidst swords and songs. Raylen’s rhythm contended with the repeated thudding of the battering ram. Arrows began flying over the wall. Stubbornly standing their ground, several Veldama were cast down by the deadly bolts and injured all the rest. Raylen refused to step back and give the ascending enemy a chance at taking the wall. His blade swung from side to side, sweeping soldier after soldier from the top of the ladder. Stepping forward even further, the Dread Knight took a hatchet from his side and began hacking at the ladder. His fellow knights followed suit one by one. Before long, the ladders could not reach the height of the wall and began to crack under the weight of the men on them. Grim triumph appeared in the verses of the Veldama.

The twelve knights who remained descended to their fellows behind the straining gate. Raylen began to stomp in time with the ram. The Veldama followed, the rest of the defenders close behind. Outside, the enemy wondered at the thumping rhythm that matched their ram sound for sound, beat for beat. The gates burst open at last, but the Veldama were the first to rush the opening. Raylen bore the brunt of the assault yet still fought as he had at the bridge. The close quarters were fit to crush the combatants together, making real battle almost impossible. Sir Blaiss showered blow after blow onto the enemy with whatever he could. His sword’s pommel struck down more than his blade and his heavy armor turned into a weapon by bruising and crushing those caught against it in the chaos. Both sides decimated each other, but the Veldama proved near impossible to kill. Still, the sheer weight of numbers pushed back many of the guardians. A flow of enemy soldiers began to form to either side of Raylen and the Veldama. They alone stood their ground with the Dread Knight at their head, while the number of their opponents grew on either side of them.

Space began to open up and Morthen’s perilous warriors were able to better show their prowess. From beyond the great swarm of fighters, horses whinnied and shouts sounded from Raylen’s horsemen. The cavalry descended on the enemy, waves of soldiers falling before the onslaught. Arrows hailed down from the other side and the tide was stemmed. Horses wheeled about to return to their position before charging again. Enemy cavalry pushed their way through broken gates and crowds of men. Several more of the Veldama fell, but Raylen’s voice carried on their song so strongly that the enemy could not hear that any voices were lost. Guardian horsemen rushed to aid the infantry again, and this time stood their ground to contend with their mounted counterparts.

Raylen felled horse after horse, dragged many men from their saddles, and dispatched dozens of foot soldiers. Most of his opponents visibly cowered before the Dread Knight, but the easiest to kill were those who charged him in foolish pride. Looking about, Sir Blaiss realized that only a few knots of men remained of his force. However, most of the enemy lay dead or ran in dismay from the terrible Veldama and their resolute fellows. Several city dwellers suddenly brought a variety of wood, tables and logs and doors. A few of the archers descended from the wall, closed the gates, and patched them up as best they could. Cut off, most of the enemy foot soldiers dropped their weapons and threw themselves on their knees. Once again the song of the Veldama began to turn to scorn and celebration, but Raylen’s voice was absent.

The Dread Knight ran down the wide street deeper into the city. Relentless despite his pain, he pursued the increasingly distant clatter of enemy horsemen. No thought was given to the dead behind, the people around, or the grievous wounds he already carried as duty’s fire drove him forward. Sir Blaiss arrived at the city’s council chambers, above which great halls of pillars supported the pinnacle of the city. Outside the great building were several horses and Morthen’s knight recognized instantly what occurred. He rushed inside and discovered the dismounted enemy wreaking havoc. These men were brutal and cruel, but also cunning and highly skilled. Without fear, Raylen strode towards the nearest of his enemies and dealt him a terrible blow that swept him from the ground. The raiders gathered warily to face the champion.

Unlike the archers at the bridge, these foes stood firm and fought masterfully against the Dread Knight. Raylen fended off one attack after another or several at once, each time leaving one fewer to return. Though they left their bloody marks, skill and guile were slowly overcome by strength and prowess until only four enemies remained. They worked together to force Raylen backwards, first up to the halls, then up to the height of the building. The combatants had no eyes for the view about them. Instead, their focus was solely on their conflict. From the Dread Knight’s cold helmet came a sound other than the grunts of injurious battle. Note after note, word after word, the Melody of the Deep sounded from Raylen’s lonely lips. He drove forward, strengthened by story and memory. The remaining enemies flew from the height with deadly wounds from the knight’s overwhelming blade. Last of all, Raylen dropped his sword and cast his helmet to the ground.

The triumphant hero knelt at the pinnacle of the city, reduced to a quivering mass. Portions of his ripped cloak whipped about and tore off. Each breath racked his body and each movement seemed to tear him apart a little further. From a distance, it appeared as if the Dread Knight was melting away. In his voice remained no strength to cry out or sing. In the mind of Sir Blaiss, no will to make a sound remained. He tried to relax but his exhausted body rejected his efforts to control it. The warrior reached for his sword with trembling fingers but he could not grasp it. With a slow movement of his mouth, Raylen gathered all he could and spat. Dark blood spattered across the ground below him and stained it. He could do little but stare at the lifeblood he’d expelled, though he tried to raise his eyes to see the city he’d protected. A deepening shadow was all that met the eyes of the Dread Knight.

Across the shadow were deep red streaks and the faintest of stars. The star, directly ahead, grew brighter and brighter. Suddenly, from the star shot a bolt of burning white light and all was laid bare. The knight’s red scars could be seen for the wounds they were before being engulfed by the lightning. Shock jolted through the warrior as the explosion of light threw him backwards. Again, the scene changed before Raylen’s eyes; he was above the city once more and could see it dimly. However, his sight was fixed directly ahead. A starlike glow approached through the air. The knight could see a winged angel shining with the blinding light that banished shadows and blood. Though the red stains remained on the ground below, he looked only toward the starlight. Soft, powerful steps alighted before the quivering, collapsing hero. A voice commanded Raylen lift his torn face. Shivering, he obeyed. A shimmering gift hovered over his bloody head.

Unfolding swiftly and powerfully, a pair of bright wings lifted Raylen from the ground. Light spread from the wings till the jagged scars and streaks of dirt were transformed to bolts of lightning. The warrior began to glow pure white, still himself, but brighter, better, perfected. On his wings he gleefully spiraled higher and higher in pursuit of the gift-bearing angel. Bloody and broken, the body of the Dread Knight remained at the height of the city he saved, entirely unremembered by the soul freed from it. The warm sky faded to blue as the winged balls of light ascended to the heavens. Among the stars, the glow was a deep blue, not a shadow but an ocean. Waves of color splashed all around while chasing one another across the sky. Raylen began swimming in the Starsea with deep breaths and a smile broke across his face as he breathed wisps of light towards the world below. 